Engineering Electromagnetics
         工程电磁场


       Youwei Jia 嘉有为
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Review
 Biot-Savart Law




                     Ampere’s Circuital Law




                                              40
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law as Applied to a Small Closed Loop
    Consider magnetic field H evaluated at the point shown in the figure. We can
 approximate the field over the closed path 1234 by making appropriate adjustments in
 the value of H along each segment.




    The objective is to take the closed path integral and ultimately obtain the point form
 of Ampere’s Law 安培定律的微分形式.
                                                                                             41
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law as Applied to a Small Closed Loop
                        Approximation of H Along One Segment
 Along path 1-2, we may write:



 where:




 Note: Please refer to Taylor series expansion

 And therefore:




                                                               42
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law as Applied to a Small Closed Loop
                           Contributions of y-Directed Path Segments
The contributions from the front and back sides will be:




The contribution from the opposite side is:




Note the path directions as specified in the figure,
and how these determine the signs used .

This leaves the left and right sides…..

                                                                       43
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law as Applied to a Small Closed Loop
                       Contributions of x-Directed Path Segments

Along the right side (path 2-3):




…and the contribution from the left side
(path 4-1) is:




The next step is to add the contributions of all four sides to find the closed path integral:


                                                                                                44
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law as Applied to a Small Closed Loop
 The total integral will now be the sum:




 and using our previous results, the becomes:




                                                   45
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law as Applied to a Small Closed Loop
 By Ampere’s Law, the closed path integral of H is equal to the enclosed current,
approximated in this case by the current density at the center, multiplied by the loop
area:



 Dividing by the loop area, we now have:




 The expression becomes exact as the loop area
 approaches zero:




                                                                                         46
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law as Applied to a Small Closed Loop
                             Other Loop Orientations
   The same exercise can be carried with the rectangular loop in the other two
 orthogonal orientations. The results are:


 Loop in yz plane:



 Loop in xz plane:



 Loop in xy plane:


    This gives all three components of the current density field.

                                                                                 47
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Curl of a Vector Field 矢量场的旋度，旋度场
    The previous exercise resulted in the rectangular coordinate representation of the
  Curl of H.
      In general, the curl of a vector field is another field that is normal to the original
  field. The curl component in the direction N, normal to the plane of the integration
  loop is:




     The direction of N is taken using the right-hand convention: With fingers of the
  right hand oriented in the direction of the path integral, the thumb points in the
  direction of the normal (or curl).


                                                                                               48
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Curl in Rectangular Coordinates
  Assembling the results of the rectangular loop integration exercise, we find the vector field
that comprises curl H:




 An easy way to calculate this is to evaluate the following determinant:




 which we see is equivalent to the cross product of the del operator with the field:



                                                                                          48
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Curl in Other Coordinate Systems
   …a little more complicated!




   Look these up as needed….

                                     49
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Visualization of Curl




                                50
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Another Maxwell Equation: Point form of Ampere’s Law
   It has just been demonstrated that:




       …..which is in fact one of Maxwell’s equations for static fields:




        This is Ampere’s Circuital Law in point form.



                                                                           51
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Curl of Conservative Field
 We already know that for a static electric field:




 This means that:                      (applies to a static electric field)


 Recall the condition for a conservative field: that is, its closed path integral is zero
 everywhere.

 Therefore, a field is conservative if it has zero curl at all points over which the field
 is defined.



                                                                                             52
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Divergence vs. Curl 散度，旋度
 Gauss’ Law             Ampere’s Law




                                       53
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Curl Applied to Partitions of a Large Surface
 Surface S is partitioned into sub-regions, each of small area

 The curl component that is normal to a surface element can
 be written using the definition of curl:




  or:




  We now apply this to every partition on the surface, and add the results….

                                                                               54
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Curl Applied to Partitions of a Large Surface

We now evaluate and add the        Cancellation here:
curl contributions from all
surface elements, and note that
adjacent path integrals will all
cancel!                                                    .
This means that the only
contribution to the overall path
integral will be around the        No cancellation here:
outer periphery of surface S.

Using our previous result, we now write:




                                                               55
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Stokes’ Theorem
 We now take our previous result, and take the limit as




                                                             .
In the limit, this side         In the limit, this side
becomes the path integral       becomes the integral
of H over the outer perimeter   of the curl of H over
because all interior paths      surface S
cancel

      The result is Stokes’ Theorem




This is a valuable tool to have at our disposal, because it gives us two ways to
evaluate the same thing!                                                           56
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Obtaining Ampere’s Circuital Law in Integral Form,
  using Stokes’ Theorem
 Begin with the point form of Ampere’s Law for static fields:


 Integrate both sides over surface S:



 ..in which the far right hand side is found from the left hand
 side using Stokes’ Theorem. The closed path integral is
 taken around the perimeter of S. Again, note that we use the
 right-hand convention in choosing the direction of the path
 integral.
 The center expression is just the net current through surface S,
 so we are left with the integral form of Ampere’s Law:


                                                                    57
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Stokes’ Theorem vs. Divergence Theorem




         .




 Note:
                                           58
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Flux and Magnetic Flux Density
 We are already familiar with the concept of electric flux:

                                       Coulombs
 in which the electric flux density in free space is:
 and where the free space permittivity is

 In a similar way, we can define the magnetic flux in units of Webers (Wb):

                                      Webers

 in which the magnetic flux density (or magnetic induction磁感应强度) in free space is:



 and where the free space permeability 磁导率 is

                                                                                 59
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• A Key Property of B
 If the flux is evaluated through a closed surface, we have in the case of electric flux,
 Gauss’ Law:




 If the same were to be done with magnetic flux density, we
 would find:




  The implication is that (for our purposes) there are no
  magnetic charges -- specifically, no point sources of
  magnetic field exist. A hint of this has already
  been observed, in that magnetic field lines always
  close on themselves.
                                                                                            60
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Another Maxwell Equation
 We may rewrite the closed surface integral of B using the divergence theorem, in
 which the right hand integral is taken over the volume surrounded by the closed
 surface:




   Because the result is zero, it follows that




  This result is known as Gauss’ Law for the magnetic field in point form.




                                                                                    61
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Maxwell’s Equations for Static Fields
 We have now completed the derivation of Maxwell’s equations for no time variation.
 In point form, these are:

                           Gauss’ Law for the electric field

                           Conservative property of the static electric field

                           Ampere’s Circuital Law

                           Gauss’ Law for the Magnetic Field

   where, in free space:




   Note: Significant changes in the above four equations will occur when the fields are
   allowed to vary with time, as we will see later.
                                                                                          62
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Maxwell’s Equations for Static Fields in Large Scale
  Form
 The divergence theorem and Stokes’ theorem can be applied to the previous four point
 form equations to yield the integral form of Maxwell’s equations for static fields:


                                         Gauss’ Law for the electric field



                                         Conservative property of the static electric field


                                         Ampere’s Circuital Law


                                          Gauss’ Law for the magnetic field

                                                                                        63
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example: Magnetic Flux Within a Coaxial Line
 Consider a length d of coax, as shown here. The magnetic field strength between
 conductors is:




                                     and so:

                                 The magnetic flux is now the integral of B over the
              B                  flat surface between radii a and b, and of length d
                      d          along z:



    The result is:
   The coax line thus “stores” this amount of magnetic flux in the region between
   conductors. This will have importance when we discuss inductance in a later
   lecture.                                                                            64
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Scalar Magnetic Potential 标量磁位
 We are already familiar with the relation between the scalar electric potential and
 electric field:


  So it is tempting to define a scalar magnetic potential such that:


   This rule must be consistent with Maxwell’s equations, so therefore:


   But the curl of the gradient of any function is identically zero! Therefore, the
   scalar magnetic potential is valid only in regions where the current density is zero
   (such as in free space).

    So we define scalar magnetic potential with a
    condition:

                                                                                          65
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Further Requirements on the Scalar Magnetic Potential
 The other Maxwell equation involving magnetic field must also be satisfied. This is:


                                                        in free space
 Therefore:



  ..and so the scalar magnetic potential satisfies Laplace’s equation (again with the
  restriction that current density must be zero):




   Note: Poission’s equation for electrostatic field:

                                                                                        66
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example: Coaxial Transmission Line
  With the center conductor current flowing out of the screen, we have




  Thus:



   So we solve:



    .. and obtain:


   where the integration constant has been set to zero
                                                                         67
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ambiguities in the Scalar Magnetic Potential
  The scalar potential is now:



  where the potential is zero at

  At point P (        ) the potential is


  But wait! As increases to
  we have returned to the same physical location, and
  the potential has a new value of -I.
  In general, the potential at P will be multivalued, and will
  acquire a new value after each full rotation in the xy plane:



                                                                  68
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Overcoming the Ambiguity
 To remove the ambiguity, we construct a mathematical barrier at any value of phi.
 The angle domain cannot cross this barrier in either direction, and so the potential
 function is restricted to angles on either side. In the present case we choose the
 barrier to lie at         so that




  The potential at point P is now single-valued:




                                                      Barrier at
                                                                                        69
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Vector Magnetic Potential 矢量磁位，磁矢位
 We make use of the Maxwell equation:

.. and the fact that the divergence of the curl of any vector field is identically zero
(show this!)


 This leads to the definition of the magnetic vector potential, A:




  Thus:

   and Ampere’s Law becomes


                                                                                          70
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
 • Expressions for Potential
Consider a differential elements, shown here. On the left is a point charge represented
by a differential length of line charge. On the right is a differential current element. The
setups for obtaining potential are identical between the two cases.
              Line Charge                               Line Current




        Scalar Electrostatic Potential                 Vector Magnetic Potential


                                                                                               71
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• General Expressions for Vector Potential
   For large scale charge or current distributions, we would sum the differential
   contributions by integrating over the charge or current, thus:



                               The closed path integral is taken because the current must
                               close on itself to form a complete circuit.




    For surface or volume current distributions, we would have, respectively:



                                      or


     in the same manner that we used for scalar electric potential.
                                                                                            72
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example
   We continue with the differential current element as shown here:
   In this case



   becomes at point P:




   Now, the curl is taken in cylindrical coordinates:




   This is the same result as found using the Biot-Savart Law (as it should be)
                                                                                  73
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Equation for the Vector Potential

  We start with:


  Then, introduce a vector identity that defines the vector Laplacian:




  Using a (lengthy) procedure (see Sec. 7.7) it can be proven that


  We are therefore left with



                                                                         74
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Equation for the Vector Potential
   We now have

   In rectangular coordinates:
                                                               (not so simple in the
                                                               other coordinate systems)
   The equation separates to give:




   This indicates that the direction of A will be the same as that of the current to
   which it is associated. Also, we get three scalar Poission’s equations.

                                                                                           75
HW-7




       76
