Engineering Electromagnetics
         工程电磁场


       Youwei Jia 嘉有为
12: Time-Varying Fields 时变场
• Faraday’s Experiment




                    The question addressed is: If a current can generate a
                    magnetic field, then can a magnetic field generate a
                    current?

                    An experiment similar to that conducted to answer
                    that question is shown here. Two sets of windings
                    are placed on a shared iron core. In the lower set,
                    a current is generated by closing the switch as shown.
                    In the upper set, any induced current is registered by
                    the ammeter.


                                                                             1
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Faraday’s Experiment- Effect of Increasing B
                         Closing the switch results in current that
                         initially increases with time in the lower
                         windings. Magnetic flux density B is
                         generated, which now links the upper
                         windings; these are found to carry current,
                         Iind. This current exists as long as B increases
                         with time. Note the direction of the induced
                         current and the position of the ammeter.

                         More specifically, the induced current is
                         proportional to the time rate of change of the
                         magnetic flux (the surface integral of B over S ).




                                                                            2
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Faraday’s Experiment- Steady State


                        Once steady state is reached, in which B is at
                        a constant value, the induced current is found
                        to be zero.




                                                                         3
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Faraday’s Experiment- Effect of Decreasing B
                        Opening the switch results in current that initially
                        decreases with time in the lower windings. Magnetic
                        flux density B collapses, and the upper windings
                        carry current, Iind in the opposite direction from
                        before. This current exists as long as the magnetic
                        flux decreases with time.


                        Once B is reduced completely to zero, the
                        induced current is zero as well.




                                                                        4
12: Time-Varying Fields
• A Simpler Demonstration

                   Consider a single turn of wire, through which an
                   externally-applied magnetic flux is present. The flux
                   varies with time.


                   A current, Iind , is generated in the wire loop as a
                   result of the changing magnetic flux.




                                                                           5
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Replacing Current with Electric Field


                      Current in the wire is caused by electric field, E, that
                      pushes the charge around the wire. In this illustration,
                      the wire is removed, and the electric field remains. An
                      integration contour, C, is also shown, that coincides
                      with E.




                                                                             6
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Electromotive Force (emf) 电动势
                Next, a unit normal vector to the surface, n, is shown. The
                relative directions of n, and the contour C are defined by the
                right-hand convention: Right hand thumb in direction of n;
                fingers then curve in the direction of C.


                The electromotive force, or emf, is defined as the closed path
                integral of E about C:




                                                                             7
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Faraday’s Law of Induction 电磁感应定律
            Faraday’s Law states that the induced emf around a closed path
            is equal to the time rate of change of the magnetic flux through
            the area surrounded by the path:




             where the flux is:




             Note the use of the normal unit vector here, which determines
             the sign of the flux, and ultimately the emf.
                                                                               8
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Faraday’s Law in Detail
             Using the definitions of emf and the magnetic flux in this situation:




             becomes:




                                                                                     9
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Alternative Expression for Faraday’s Law
  (Another Maxwell Equation)
 First, move the time derivative
 into the interior of the right-hand
 integral:


 Second, use Stokes’ theorem to
 write the line integral of E as the
 surface integral of its curl:

 Third, simplify by noting that both
 integrals are taken over the same surface:


 Finally, obtain the point form of
 Faraday’s Law:
                                              10
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Example
            Start with a uniform (but time-varying) field:




            Then




            As this calculation will work for any radius, we can replace
            the fixed radius with a variable radius and write:




                                                                      11
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Example: Another Way…
             This time use:                   where

             Therefore:


                                                  Surviving z-directed
                                                  curl component with
                                                  radial variation only

             Multiply through by   and integrate both sides:




             Obtain, as before:



                                                                          12
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Induced emf from a Moving Closed Path
In the case shown here, the flux within a closed path
is increasing with time as a result of the sliding bar,
moving at constant velocity v.
The conducting path is assumed perfectly-conducting,
so that the induced emf appears entirely across the
voltmeter.

The magnetic flux enclosed by the conducting
path is




where the y dimension varies with time.

 Therefore:
                                                          13
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Finding the Direction of E
 ..so we have:




 The E integration path direction is determined
 by the right hand convention (thumb of right
 hand in direction of n, fingers in direction of
 closed path). This is the direction of dL as
 shown in the figure.

 From the equation, we see that          is        Direction of integration
                                                   path of E through conductor
 negative, meaning that E will point from
                                                   (by right hand convention)
 terminals 2 to 1 as shown. As we have a
 perfectly-conducing path, E will exist only
 at the voltmeter.


                                                                                 14
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Motional emf 动生电动势
 The sliding bar contains free charges (electrons) that experience
 Lorentz forces as they move through the B field:

 Recall:

  and so..

  This result is the motional field intensity:



 ..and so now the motional emf is the closed path integral of Em over the same path
 as before.




 Note: the motional field intensity exists only in the part of the circuit that is in motion.
                                                                                                15
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Two Contributions to emf
For a moving conducting path in an uniform field, the emf is composed entirely of
motional emf:




When the B field is time-varying as well, then both effects need to be taken into account.
The total emf is:




                                      Transformer emf            Motional emf




                                                                                         16
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Summary and rethinking




             A time-changing magnetic field produces an electric field.
              Q1: How about a time-changing electric field? Does it
              produce a magnetic field?
              Q2: What is the probable source of magnetic field?



                                                                          17
12: Time-Varying Fields
• An Apparent Contradiction
 Ampere’s Circuital Law:

  Taking the divergence of the second equation gives us a result that is identically zero:




  But a previous exercise gave us this result: the equation of continuity:




   So what went wrong?



                                                                                         18
12: Time-Varying Fields
• The Missing Term - Displacement Current Density
Suppose we add a term to the right-hand side of
Ampere’s Law, whose identity we need to determine:

                                                                   Added term to
Now take the divergence:                                           be identified

                  From the equation of continuity            This must be true




 So now:


..from which:                             Now, Ampere’s
                                          Law is modified:

This term is the displacement current density
                                                                                 19
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Symmetry in the Curl Equations
 Our new result states that the total current
 is composed of conduction current 传导电
 流 or convection current 运流电流 and
 displacement current 位移电流:
  where the displacement current density is:

 Conduction current density is :

 Convection current density is :

 In the absence of conduction/convection
 current, and when fields are
 time-varying, we have:

 Note the symmetry when
 comparing to Faraday’s Law:
                                                20
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Displacement Current in Ampere’s Law
 Displacement current is found from displacement current density by taking the
 appropriate surface integral:




 Such an integral of Ampere’s Circuital Law curl equation gives:




 Applying Stokes’ Theorem to the left side gives the more familiar form of Ampere’s
 Law, now with displacement current added:




                                                                                      21
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Demonstration of Displacement Current
In this situation, a time-            The magnetic field is presumed time-varying, and thus it
varying magnetic field links          generates emf, which in turn provides the current.
a wire loop that is connected
to a parallel-plate capacitor.

We assume for the moment that
conduction current I exists in the          H
                                        S
wire. Ampere’s Law is applied to
the circular path shown, whose radius     I
is very small compared to the local         k
wire length. The wire therefore appears
very long and straight. We obtain:




                                     The integration surface is the flat plane whose perimeter is
                                     the circlular path, k. We assign the z direction (locally) to be
                                     along the current where it passes through the plane.
                                                                                                   22
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Demonstration of Displacement Current
While current is flowing, the electric
field in the capacitor is changing with
time, in step with the plate charge
level, deposited by the current.
                                              H
                                          S
The capacitor voltage is V0(t).                   D
Taking the capacitor axis as z,
assuming free space permittivity,
and with cap dimensions as indicated,
the time-varying electric flux density
within it is:




                                                      23
12: Time-Varying Fields
• Demonstration of Displacement Current
 Now suppose the surface S,               Stretched surface now intercepts electric field lines,
 surrounded by the original               and no conduction current
 contour, k, is stretched so that it
 intercepts the electric field
 between capacitor plates:

 Ampere’s Law is again applied,
 but this time we need to use the
                                                   H
 displacement current in the capacitor:




  The result must be independent of the surface
  that is chosen, which leads to the conclusion                                       a familiar
  that the conduction and displacement currents                                       result!
  must be equal:                                                                                   24
13: Maxwell’s Equations
• Maxwell’s Equations in Point Form


                             Ampere’s Circuital Law



                             Faraday’s Law of Induction



                             Gauss’ Law for the electric field



                             Gauss’s Law for the magnetic field



                                                                  25
13: Maxwell’s Equations
• Ampere’s Circuital Law in Integral Form
 Take the surface integral of the point form equation:




                                     I                   Id
 Apply Stokes’s Theorem to the left hand side:




             mmf
  where
                                                              Remember to use the right hand
                                                              convention on relating path
                                                              direction to the normal vector.


                                                                                        26
13: Maxwell’s Equations
• Faraday’s Law of Induction in Integral Form
 Take the surface integral of the point form equation:




 Apply Stokes’s Theorem to the left hand side:




      emf
                                                         Remember to use the right hand
                                                         convention on relating path direction
                                                         to the normal vector.


                                                                                           27
13: Maxwell’s Equations
• Gauss’s Law for the Electric Field in Integral Form
    Begin with:                   and integrate both sides over a volume, v:




    Apply the divergence theorem to the left hand side:




                                                                               28
13: Maxwell’s Equations
• Gauss’s Law for the Magnetic Field in Integral Form
    Begin with:                   and integrate both sides over a volume, v:




     Apply the divergence theorem to the left hand side:




                                                                               29
