Engineering Electromagnetics
         工程电磁场


       Youwei Jia 嘉有为
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Method of Images 镜像法
  Think about the effect of metal
  conductors on the electric field built
  by the point charge in free space. Why
  are the streamlines distorted? How can
  we evaluate such kind of distortion?
  Can we analytically solve the distorted
  field?

  Unfortunately, in most cases, we are not able to derive analytical solution. However,
  sometimes we can!




                                                                                          23
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Method of Images 镜像法



 The Theorem of Uniqueness 唯一性定理 states that if we are given a configuration of
 charges and boundary conditions, there will exist only one potential and electric field
 solution.




 So the boundary conditions and charges are identical in the upper half spaces of
 both configurations (not in the lower half).
                                                                                           24
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Method of Images 镜像法




 In effect, the positive point charge images across the conducting plane, allowing
 the conductor to be replaced by the image. The field and potential distribution in
 the upper half space is now found much more easily!




                                                                                      25
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Example
 In this case, we are to find the surface charge density on the conducting plane at
 the point (2,5,0). A 30-nC line charge lies parallel to the y axis at z = 3.

  The first step is to replace the conducting plane by a line charge of -30 nC at z = -3.




                                                                                            26
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Example (Cont’d)
 In this case, we are to find the surface charge density on the conducting plane at
 the point (2,5,0). A 30-nC line charge lies parallel to the y axis at z = 3.
 Referring to the figure, we find:



  Then




 We now add the two fields to get:




                                                                                      27
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Example (Cont’d)
 In this case, we are to find the surface charge density on the conducting plane at
 the point (2,5,0). A 30-nC line charge lies parallel to the y axis at z = 3.

  We now have the electric field at point P:

  Now

  To find the charge density, use


                                                                          n
  where n = az

  Therefore                                                                   D



                                                                                      28
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Dielectric Materials 电介质材料
 Free space (vacuum): There is nothing out there!

 Metal conductor: Copper, iron, aluminum…..,
  1) Charge can exist only on the surface;
  2) Electric field cannot exist in the interior;
  3) Conductor is an equipotential;
  4) Conductor-to-Free space boundary conditions.

 Dielectric Materials (isolators): Air, Fiber, Glass, Paper, Quartz, Porcelain陶
 瓷, Polyethylene聚乙烯

 Q: What is the (electromagnetic) nature of dielectric materials? And Why?




                                                                                  29
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Dielectric Materials -Electric Dipole and Dipole Moment
  In dielectric, charges are held in position (bound 束缚), and ideally there are no
  free charges that can move and form a current. Atoms and molecules may be
  polar 极化(having separated positive and negative charges) by the application of
  an electric field.
  Consider such a polarized atom or molecule, which possesses a dipole moment, p,
  defined as the charge magnitude present, Q, times the positive and negative charge
  separation, d. Dipole moment is a vector that points from the negative to the positive
  charge.

                              Q
                       d                       p = Qd ax


 Summary-Some new terms:
 Free charges, bound charges(束缚电荷), polar molecule(极性分子), non-polar
 molecule(无极性分子), polarize(极化)……
                                                                                           30
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Dielectric Materials -Model of a Dielectric
 A dielectric can be modeled as an ensemble of bound charges in free space,
 associated with the atoms and molecules that make up the material. Some of these
 may have intrinsic dipole moments, others not. In some materials (such as liquids),
 dipole moments are in random directions.




                                                                                       31
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Dielectric Materials -Polarization Field

                                             The number of dipoles is
                                             expressed as a density, n
                                             dipoles per unit volume.
                                         The Polarization Field of the
                                         medium is defined as:



                         v



                                      Dipole moment per unit volume
                                      Unit: [C/m2]


                                                                  32
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
 • Polarization Field (with Electric Field Applied)
Introducing an electric field may increase the charge separation in each dipole, and
possibly re-orient dipoles so that there is some aggregate alignment, as shown here. The
effect is small, and is greatly exaggerated here!

E
                                                            The effect is to increase P.




                                                          if all dipoles are identical

                                                              = np
                                                       Note: There should be something
                                                       to indicate the polarization degree
                                                       of specific dielectric material.
                                                                                             33
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Migration of Bound Charge
Consider an electric field applied at an angle  to a surface normal as shown. The
resulting separation of bound charges (or re-orientation) leads to positive bound
charge crossing upward through surface of area S, while negative bound charge
crosses downward through the surface.
Dipole centers (red dots) that lie within the range (1/2) d cos above or below
the surface will transfer charge across the surface.



                                         E




                                                                                     34
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Migration of Bound Charge

   The total bound charge that crosses the surface is given by:


                                    S
                              volume


                                                  E           P




                                                                  35
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Polarization Flux Through a Closed Surface
  The accumulation of positive bound charge within a closed
  surface means that the polarization vector must be pointing
  inward. Therefore:




  Gauss’s Law in free space:




                                                                36
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Polarization Flux Through a Closed Surface

 Now consider the charge within the closed surface
 consisting of bound charges, Qb , and free charges, Q.
 The total charge will be the sum of all bound and free
 charges. We write Gauss’ Law in terms of the total
 charge, QT as:




     where               free charge

             QT = Qb + Q
                 bound charge
                                                          37
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Polarization Flux Through a Closed Surface
  We now have:

                               and


  where QT = Qb + Q


  combining these, we write:




  we thus identify:                  which we use in the familiar form
                                     of Gauss’ Law:



                                                                         38
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Charge Densities
 Taking the previous results and using the divergence theorem, we find the point form
 expressions:



 Bound Charge:



 Total Charge:



 Free Charge:




                                                                                        39
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Electric Susceptibility电极化率 and the relative
  permittivity相对介电常数
 A stronger electric field results in a larger polarization in the medium. In a linear
 medium, the relation between P and E is linear, and is given by:



  where e is the electric susceptibility (电极化率)of the medium.

  We may now write:
  where the relative permittivity （相对介电常数）is defined as:



  Leading to the overall permittivity of the medium:

                                      where
                                                                                         40
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Isotropic各向同性 vs. Anisotropic各向异性 Media
 In an isotropic medium, the dielectric constant is invariant with direction of the applied
 electric field.

 This is not the case in an anisotropic medium (usually a crystal) in which the dielectric
 constant will vary as the electric field is rotated in certain directions. In this case, the
 electric flux density vector components must be evaluated separately through the
 dielectric tensor. The relation can be expressed in the form:




      Note: 1) D and E (and P) are no longer parallel;
            2) There may be hysteresis 滞后 between D and E.

                                                                                                41
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Summary




                              42
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Boundary Condition for Tangential Electric Field
                             We use the fact that E is conservative:
                       n

                             Therefore:



   Region 1
     1                      Leading to:

     Region 2                More formally:
          2




                                                                       44
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Boundary Condition for Normal Electric Flux Density
We apply Gauss’ Law to the cylindrical volume shown here, in which cylinder height
is allowed to approach zero, and there is charge density s on the surface:
                                                                         n
                                                                             Region 1
                                                                   s                1

                                                                             Region 2
                                                                                    2
 The electric flux enters and exits only through the bottom and top surfaces, respectively.



   From which:                                        More formally:



   and if the charge density is zero:
                                                                                          45
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Example
 We wish to find the relation between the angles 1 and 2, assuming no charge
 density on the surface.




                                                                                 46
9: Conductors & Dielectrics
• Example
  We wish to find the relation between the angles 1 and 2, assuming no charge
  density on the surface.
 The normal components of D will be continuous across
 the boundary, so that:




 Then, with tangential E continuous across the
 boundary, it follows that:


                                        Now, taking the ratio of the two underlined
                                        equations, we finally obtain:

   or…

                                                                                      46
HW-5




       47
