Engineering Electromagnetics
         工程电磁场


       Youwei Jia 嘉有为
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Motivating the Magnetic Field Concept: Forces Between
  Currents




  Magnetic forces arise whenever we have charges in motion 运动的电荷!
  The source of the steady magnetic field may be a permanent magnet 永磁体, an
  electric field changing linearly with time随时间线性变化的电场, or a direct
  current直流电流. We will largely ignore the permanent magnet and save the
  time-varying electric field for a later discussion. Our present study will concern
  the magnetic field produced by a differential dc element in free space.
  Q: What is the source of electrostatic field?                                        1
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Motivating the Magnetic Field Concept: Forces Between
  Currents




  The magnetic field intensity, H, circulates around its source, I1, in a direction
  most easily determined by the right-hand rule: Right thumb in the direction of
  the current, fingers curl in the direction of H.


                                                                                      2
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Biot-Savart Law
The Biot-Savart Law specifies the magnetic field
intensity, H, arising from a “point source” current
element of differential length dL.
                                                              A. M. Ampère   J. B. Biot     F. Savart
                                                               (1775-1836) (1774-1862)    (1791-1841)




                                                  The units of H are [A/m]

                                              Note the similarity to Coulomb’s Law, in which
                                              a point charge of magnitude dQ1 at Point 1 would
Note in particular the inverse-square         generate electric field at Point 2 given by:
distance dependence, and the fact that
the cross product will yield a field vector
that points into the page. This is a formal
statement of the right-hand rule.                                                                  3
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Field Arising From a Circulating Current
 At point P, the magnetic field associated with
 the differential current element IdL is




                                     To determine the total field arising from the
                                     closed circuit path, we sum the contributions
                                     from the current elements that make up the entire
                                     loop, or




  The contribution to the field at P from any portion of the current will be just the
  above integral evaluated over just that portion.

                                                                                         4
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Two- and Three-Dimensional Currents
 On a surface that carries uniform surface current
 density K [A/m], the current within width b is


 ..and so the differential current quantity that
 appears in the Biot-Savart law becomes:



 The magnetic field arising from a current
 sheet is thus found from the two-dimensional
 form of the Biot-Savart law:

 In a similar way, a volume current will be made up
 of three-dimensional current elements, and so the Biot-
 Savart law for this case becomes:
                                                           5
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example of the Biot-Savart Law
In this example, we evaluate the magnetic field intensity on the y axis (equivalently
in the xy plane) arising from a filament current of infinite length on the z axis.

Using the drawing, we identify:




and so..


so that:




                                                                                        6
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example of the Biot-Savart Law (Cont’d)

We now have:


Integrate this over the entire wire:




 ..after carrying out the cross product

                                            7
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example of the Biot-Savart Law (Cont’d)


we have:




                                         Current is into the page.
                                        Magnetic field streamlines
    finally:                     are concentric circles, whose magnitudes
                              decrease as the inverse distance from the z axis


                                                                          8
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Comparison: Electric field of a line charge Vs Magnetic
  field of a line current




                                                        9
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Field Arising from a Finite Current Segment
 In this case, the field is to be found in the xy plane at Point 2. The Biot-Savart
 integral is taken over the wire length:




 ..after a few additional steps we find:



                                                                                      10
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Another Example: Magnetic Field from a Current Loop
Consider a circular current loop of radius a in the x-y plane, which
carries steady current I. We wish to find the magnetic field strength
anywhere on the z axis.
We will use the Biot-Savart Law:




 where:




                                                                        11
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Another Example: Magnetic Field from a Current Loop
Substituting the previous expressions, the Biot-Savart Law becomes:




carry out the cross products to find:




 but we must include the angle dependence in
 the radial unit vector:



 with this substitution, the radial component will integrate to zero, meaning that all
 radial components will cancel on the z axis.
                                                                                         12
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Another Example: Magnetic Field from a Current Loop
 Now, only the z component remains, and the integral
 evaluates easily:




 Note the form of the numerator: the product of
 the current and the loop area. We define this as
 the magnetic moment 磁矩:




 Note: Please compare the magnetic moment with the electric dipole moment which
 both are vectors.
                                                                                  13
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Circuital Law 安培环路定律
 Ampere’s Circuital Law states that the line integral of H about any closed
 path is exactly equal to the direct current enclosed by that path.




  In the figure at right, the integral of H about closed paths a and b gives the total
  current I, while the integral over path c gives only that portion of the current
  that lies within c.

                                                                                         14
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law Applied to a Long Wire
                        Symmetry suggests that H will be circular,
                        constant-valued at constant radius, and centered on
                        the current (z) axis.

                        Choosing path a, and integrating H around the circle
         ρ              of radius ρ gives the enclosed current, I:




             so that:                  as before.

                                                                        15
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law Applied to Coaxial Transmission Line

                      In the coax line, we have two concentric
                      solid conductors that carry equal and opposite
                      currents, I.

                      The line is assumed to be infinitely long, and the
                      circular symmetry suggests that H will be entirely
                      φ - directed, and will vary only with radius ρ.

                      Our objective is to find the magnetic field
                      for all values of ρ .




                                                                           16
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law Applied to Coaxial Transmission Line
                       Field Between Conductors
  The inner conductor can be thought of as made up of
  a bundle of filament currents, each of which
  produces the field of a long wire.
  Symmetry suggests that H will be circular,
  constant-valued at constant radius, and centered
  on the current (z) axis.
  Choosing the closed circle in blue with radius
  as ρ, and integrating H around this circle gives
  the enclosed current, I:



                            a<ρ<b


                                                        17
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law Applied to Coaxial Transmission Line
                     Field Within the Inner Conductor
  Inside the inner conductor, and at radius ρ, we again have:




  But now, the current enclosed is




  so that                     or finally:

                                                                18
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law Applied to Coaxial Transmission Line
                       Field Outside Both Conductors
 Outside the transmission line, where ρ> c,
 no current is enclosed by the integration path,
 and so

                            0

 As the current is uniformly distributed, and since we
 have circular symmetry, the field would have to
 be constant over the circular integration path, and so it
 must be true that:




                                                             19
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law Applied to Coaxial Transmission Line
                       Field Inside the Outer Conductor
  Inside the outer conductor, the enclosed current consists
  of that within the inner conductor plus that portion of the
  outer conductor current existing at radii less than ρ

  Ampere’s Circuital Law becomes




  ..and so finally:




                                                                20
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law Applied to Coaxial Transmission Line
       Magnetic Field Strength as a Function of Radius
             in the Coaxial Transmission Line




                                                         21
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Field Arising from a Current Sheet
 For a uniform plane current in the y direction, we expect an x-directed H field from
 symmetry.
 Applying Ampere’s circuital law to the path              we find:

                                      or
 In other words, the magnetic field is discontinuous across the current sheet by the
 magnitude of the surface current density.




                                                                                        22
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Field Arising from a Current Sheet
 If instead, the upper path is elevated to the line between and    , the same current is
 enclosed and we would have
                                 from which we conclude that

 so the field is constant in each region (above and below the current plane)

                                          By symmetry, the field above the sheet must be
                                          the same in magnitude as the field below the
                                          sheet. Therefore, we may state that




                                                    and

                                                                                           23
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Field Arising from a Current Sheet
 The actual field configuration is shown below, in which magnetic field above the
 current sheet is equal in magnitude, but in the direction opposite to the field below
 the sheet.
                                 The field in either region is found by the cross product:




                                          where aN is the unit vector that is normal to the
                                          current sheet, and that points into the region in
                                          which the magnetic field is to be evaluated.



                                                                                         24
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Field Arising from Two Current Sheets
 Here are two parallel currents, equal and opposite, as you would find in a parallel-plate
 transmission line. If the sheets are much wider than their spacing, then the magnetic field
 will be contained in the region between plates, and will be nearly zero outside.

                                    Hx2 (z > d/2 )    These fields cancel for current sheets
                                    Hx1 (z > d/2 )    of infinite width.

                                   K1 = -Ky ay               These fields are equal and add
                                                             to give
                                   Hx1 (-d/2 < z < d/2 )
                                   Hx2 (-d/2 < z < d/2 )     H = K x aN (-d/2 < z < d/2 )
                                   K2 = -Ky ay                where K is either K1 or K2

                                    Hx1 (z < -d/2 )   These fields cancel for current sheets
                                    Hx2 (z < -d/2 )   of infinite width.


                                                                                           25
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Field Arising from Current Loop Field
 Using the Biot-Savart Law, we previously found the magnetic
 field on the z axis from a circular current loop:




 We will now use this result as a building block
 to construct the magnetic field on the axis of
 a solenoid 螺线管 -- formed by a stack of
 identical current loops, centered on the z axis.




                                                               26
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• On-Axis Field Within a Solenoid
We consider the single current loop field as a differential contribution to
the total field from a stack of N closely-spaced loops, each of which
carries current I. The length of the stack (solenoid) is d, so therefore the               z
density of turns匝数will be N/d.                                                 d/2
Now the current in the turns within a differential length, dz, will be



We consider this as our differential “loop current”
                                                             -d/2
 so that the previous result for H from a single loop:



  now becomes:

                                            in which z is measured from the center of the coil,
                                            where we wish to evaluate the field.
                                                                                          27
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• On-Axis Field Within a Solenoid
The total field on the z axis at z = 0 will be the sum of the field
contributions from all turns in the coil -- or the integral
                                                                            z
of dH over the length of the solenoid.                                d/2




                                                            -d/2




                                                                            28
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• On-Axis Field Within a Solenoid
 We now have the on-axis field at the solenoid midpoint (z = 0):
                                                                                         z
                                                                               d/2




 Note that for long solenoids, for which            , the
 result simplifies to:
                                                            -d/2




  This result is valid at all on-axis positions deep within long coils -- at distances
  from each end of several radii.

                                                                                         29
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• On-Axis Field Within a Solenoid: Continuous Surface
  Current


           d/2


                           Therefore:




-d/2




                                                        30
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Solenoid Field -- Off-Axis
 To find the field within a solenoid, but off the z axis, we apply Ampere’s Circuital
 Law in the following way:
 The illustration below shows the solenoid cross-section, from a lengthwise cut
 through the z axis. Current in the windings flows in and out of the screen in the
 circular current path. Each turn carries current I. The magnetic field along the z axis
 is NI/d as we found earlier.




                                                                                           32
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Solenoid Field -- Off-Axis
 Applying Ampere’s Law to the rectangular path shown below leads to the following:




                                                                                     33
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Solenoid Field -- Off-Axis
The radial integrals will now cancel, because they are oppositely-directed, and because in
the long coil, is not expected to differ between the two radial path segments.




                                                                                         34
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Solenoid Field -- Off-Axis
  What is left now are the two z integrations, the first of which we can evaluate as
  shown. Since this first integral result is equal to the enclosed current, it must follow
  that the second integral -- and the outside magnetic field -- are zero.




                                                                                             35
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Solenoid Field -- Off-Axis
  The situation does not change if the lower z-directed path is raised above the z axis.
  The vertical paths still cancel, and the outside field is still zero. The field along the
  path A to B is therefore NI/d as before.




  Conclusion: The magnetic field within a long solenoid is approximately constant
  throughout the coil cross-section, and is Hz = NI/d.                                        36
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Toroid Magnetic Field
   A toroid is a doughnut-shaped set of windings around a core material. The cross-
 section could be circular (as shown here, with radius a) or any other shape.
   Below, a slice of the toroid is shown, with current emerging from the screen
 around the inner periphery (in the positive z direction). The windings are modeled
 as N individual current loops, each of which carries current I.




                                                                                      37
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Ampere’s Law as Applied to a Toroid
 Ampere’s Circuital Law can be applied to a toroid by taking a closed loop integral
 around the circular contour C at radius ρ. Magnetic field H is presumed to be
 circular, and a function of radius only at locations within the toroid that are not too
 close to the individual windings. Under this condition, we would assume:

 This approximation improves as the density of turns gets higher
 (using more turns with finer wire).
  Ampere’s Law now takes the form:



   so that….




 Performing the same integrals over contours drawn in the
 regions                or                will lead to zero magnetic
 field there, because no current is enclosed in either case.                               38
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Surface Current Model of a Toroid
   Consider a sheet current molded into a doughnut shape, as shown. The current
   density at radius       crosses the xy plane in the z direction and is given in
   magnitude by Ka

  Ampere’s Law applied to a circular contour C inside the
  toroid (as in the previous example) will take the form:




   leading to…



   inside the toroid…. and the field is zero outside as before.


                                                                                     39
