Engineering Electromagnetics
         ⼯程电磁场


       Youwei Jia 嘉有为
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Force on a Moving Charge
   The forces exerted on a point charge by electric and magnetic fields are:

          charge can be stationary                   charge is moving
          or moving                                  at velocity v

                  Q+                 Fe             Fm X
                                                              v

                                                         Q+

                    E                                         B
                Fe = QE                               Fm = Q (v x B)
            in the direction of E                      into the screen


                                                                               1
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Lorentz Force Law
   Generally, with both electric and magnetic fields present, we have both forces:

                    B

                                          The electric field will, in this
                                          case, accelerate the charge in
                                          the direction of E, making it
                                   E      cross the B field lines in the
                Q+                 v      perpendicular sense; this gives a
                                          magnetic force component that
                                          is out of the screen

   The total force on the moving charge is then the sum of the two, or



   This is the Lorentz Force Law (sometimes called the “fifth Maxwell equation”)
                                                                                     2
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Hall Effect
   When a B field is applied in a direction perpendicular to a current, positive and
   negative carriers will be displaced slightly, as shown, as a result of the magnetic
   forces on the moving charges.

   This produces a measurable voltage, known as the Hall Voltage.




                                                                                         3
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Force on a Differential Current Element
                      dv

                                        Consider a small segment (length dL)
                                        of current in the form of a volume
             dL       J            B    current density J, suspended in a magnetic
                                        field, B. The current element has volume dv.



 We know that current density is volume charge density moving at velocity v:


  ..and we can write the differential force on a differential charge, dQ:
                                         where

   Therefore:                            ..so that finally:

                                                                                       4
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Other Expressions for Differential Force
  For volume current, surface current, or filament current, we have the appropriate
  expressions for differential current:



 The corresponding expressions for differential force within magnetic field B are:


                                  volume current density (three dimensions)

                                  surface current density (two dimensions)


                                  filament current of length dL (one dimension)


                                                                                      5
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Evaluating the Total Force
   In three or two dimensions,
   the net force is found by
   integrating over the volume
   or surface that the current occupies

   For a filament current, the total force will be the integral of the differential force,
   generally taken over the closed path that comprises the current:




   For a straight filament of length L, having uniform current, and within a uniform
   field, this becomes:

                                   which in turn reduces to
                                                                                             6
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example: Force on a Square Current Loop
  The magnetic field arising from the straight wire,
  evaluated in the plane of the loop, is:



  The B field is then:




 The total force on the loop is then found by evaluating:




   over all four loop segments
                                                            7
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example: Force on a Square Current Loop
 The integral becomes:




                             A   B
                                             D
                                     A           C
             C           D
                                         B




                                                     8
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Force Between Differential Current Elements
 We use the Biot-Savart Law to find the differential magnetic field at Point 2 that
 arises from the differential current element at Point 1:



                                                                                  dH2


                                                                         aR12
 The flux density associated with this field
 will generate a force on an additional current
 element at Point 2




                                                                                        9
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Force Between Differential Current Elements
A second differential current element is now placed
at Point 2. It will experience a force given by:



 Then with:                                           aR12



  where:

 we finally obtain:




                                                             10
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
 • Example
 Given:



      Then
                            aR12

Substitute these into:




Obtain:




                                   11
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Force Between Current Filaments of Finite or Infinite
  Lengths
  The force is found by integrating the differential filament result:




  in which the integral is taken over the lengths of both filaments. To be complete, both
  integrals would be taken over the closed loops that the currents must form, thus the
  general expression:
                                                             These integrals can
                                                             be modified to incorporate
                                                             specific limits, in order to
                                                             find the force from a
                                                             specified segment of a
                                                             wire that acts on a specific
                                                             segment of another wire

                                                                                            12
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example: Force Between Parallel Wires (the easy way)
 Consider the two wires shown here, carrying equal and opposite currents, I, and
 spaced by distance d12 along the y axis. The wires are oriented in the z direction
 and both are infinitely long.
                                                         z
 The force is to be found on a length of wire 2,
 of equal extent above and below the y axis.            I
 We can solve this one fairly quickly by observing
 that the B field from wire 1 at the location of wire 2
 will be:                                                                   x B
                                                                               12

                                                                      d12             y


   and
                                                                            I
                                                          wire 1       wire 2

                                                                                          13
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example: Force Between Parallel Wires (the easy way)
 We have:                             and

 Then the force acting on the differential element   z
 shown is:
                                                     I


                                                                        x B
                                                                           12


 The total force on the length is therefore:                      d12           y




  ….which is a repulsive force                                          I
                                                         wire 1    wire 2
                                                                                    14
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Torque 转矩: Basic Definition

                    Given a force F at point P, the torque
                    about the origin is a vector that is perpendicular
                    to the plane containing F and position vector
                    R. The torque vector is the cross product:




                                                                         15
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Torque: General Equation
 Now, consider two equal and opposite
 forces, applied at points P1 and P2 as shown.

 As the net force is zero, there is no translation of the object.
 The net torque on the system will be:



 But since F2 = -F1 :




 This means that the torque is independent of the choice of origin, provided the total
 force acting is zero. This applies to any number of forces. And the origin can be
 located anywhere that is convenient.

                                                                                         16
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Torque on a Differential Current Loop
 The filament loop shown here lies in the xy plane with
 its center at the origin. Magnetic flux density B
 exists everywhere, and in a general direction. As the
 loop is of differential size, the magnitude of B is
 assumed uniform over the loop area, and has value B0.
 Current I circulates around the loop.

 The differential force acting on side 1 is:




                                                          17
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Torque on a Differential Current Loop
 We have the differential force acting on side 1:




 For side 1, the lever arm extends from
 the origin to the midpoint of the side, and
 is given by:

                                                      R1
  The differential torque acting on side 1 is then:




                                                           18
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Torque on a Differential Current Loop
We next consider the opposite side (3), and
using similar reasoning, find the differential
torque acting on side 3:


                                                         R3




The total differential torque acting on sides 1 and 3
is then:


Then, using the same reasoning, the total differential
torque acting on sides 2 and 4 is:


                                                              19
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Torque on a Differential Current Loop
 Now, with:
 and
 The total torque on all four sides is:


 The terms in parenthesis can be written as a cross
 product:


 Finally resulting in:
                               dS points out of the screen in this example

 where the differential loop area vector is defined using the right hand convention:
                            Fingers in direction of current, thumb in direction of S
                                                                                       20
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Differential Magnetic Moment
  Having found the torque on a differential current loop:
                                                            Magnetic Dipole
                                                              磁偶极⼦


  Define the differential magnetic dipole
  moment as the product of the current and
  the differential area vector:



  from which:




                                                                       21
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Torque on a Large-Scale Current Loop
 If we remove the restriction on differential size, and assume uniform magnetic flux
 density over the entire loop area, the differential result




 becomes:




  These results are independent of the shape of the loop -- the area and orientation
  are all that matter.




                                                                                       22
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Example




                                23
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Materials
Materials are characterized according to their configurations of -- and interactions
between -- atomic magnetic moments. On the atomic or molecular scale, magnetic
moments are associated with electron orbital configurations, electron spin⾃旋, and
(to a lesser extent) nuclear spin.
                                                                morb
The diagram shows contributions to
the total magnetic moment of an
atom that arise from the electron
orbit (morb) and electron spin (mspin),
in which the latter vector may add
to or subtract from the
orbital moment.

The magnetic flux density, B0, is
externally applied.                                              mspin (positive or negative)


                                                                                        24
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
 • Magnetic Materials: Diamagnetisim 抗/反磁性
                                                                              morb
In this case, the summation of all orbital and spin magnetic
moments associated with all electrons in a single atom is
precisely zero, with the atom in its unperturbed state.
Application of a magnetic field leads
to an outward radial force Fm on the orbiting
electron shown here, resulting in a decrease
                                                       A rough sketch of what is going on in an atom
in its orbital velocity in order to maintain a                  (greatly oversimplified!)
balance of Coulomb and magnetic forces.
The velocity reduction will result
                                                                               mspin
in a lessening of the orbital magnetic                                         (acting to partially
moment, thus producing a very small net                    Fm                  cancel the orbital
magnetic moment in the direction of the                                        contribution)
spin moment; i.e., in the opposite direction          Examples of diamagnetic materials:
to the applied field.                                 metallic bismuth铋, copper, gold,
So a net decrease in the magnetic                     silicon, germanium锗, graphite⽯墨,
flux density will occur.                              sulfur硫.
                                                                                         25
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Materials: Paramagnetism 顺磁性
In this case, the summation of all orbital and spin magnetic moments associated with
individual atoms is not zero, but is very small. Because of random orientations of adjacent
atoms, however, the average magnetic moment in the material is zero.
                                                                        morb
Application of a magnetic field on the non-zero
moments introduces a torque on the ensemble
which results in the partial alignment of the
moments of adjacent atoms. This strengthens the
overall magnetic flux density.
However, the diamagnetic effect, in addition to
the tendency toward random orientations due to                           mspin
                                                                         (adding to the orbital
molecular activity (increasing with temperature)
                                                                         contribution, or not
reduces the net increase in B.                                           completely cancelling it if
                                                                         negative)
So a net increase in the B field will be seen, but
this increase is very small.                             Fm

Examples of paramagnetic materials: potassium钾, tungsten钨, rare earth
elements稀⼟                                                                                    26
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Materials: Ferromagnetism 铁磁性

  In ferromagnetic materials, fairly
  strong atomic or molecular magnetic
  moments exist. Moments of adjacent
  molecules interact to cause partial
  alignment of moments within small regions
  known as domains磁畴. Magnetic moment
  orientations from domain to domain are
  random, thus resulting in a zero overall
  magnetic moment for the material.




                                              27
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Materials: Ferromagnetism 铁磁性
                                                               B0
 Application of a steady magnetic field produces greater
 torque on magnetic moments that are closer to alignment
 with B0. Average alignment throughout the material thus
 increases, but does so through the enlargement of the
 nearly-aligned domains, at the expense of those that are
 not aligned with B0.
 A significant increase in the overall magnetic flux density
 occurs.

 Ferromagnetic elements: iron, nickel镍, cobalt钴 (room
 temperature), gadolinium轧, dysprosium镝 (low temperature).

 Another manifestation is found in superparamagnetic超顺磁
 性materials, consisting of ferromagnetic particles suspended
 in a non-ferromagnetic matrix (magnetic recording tape is
 the most common example)
                                                               28
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Materials: Antiferromagnetism 反铁磁性
 In certain materials, and at low temperatures, adjacent magnetic moments are oriented
 in opposite directions, this being the lowest energy state for the ensemble.
 The application of an external field produces no change in the net flux density .




                       m


  Example of antiferromagnetic materials: manganese oxide氧化锰, nickel oxide,
  ferrous sulfide硫化亚铁, cobalt chloride氯化亚钴



                                                                                         29
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Materials: Ferrimagnetism 亚铁磁性
In certain materials, the lowest energy configuration involves adjacent magnetic
moments that are oriented with opposing orientations, but with different magnitudes
as shown. The application of an external field produces a significant change in the
net flux density, but not as strong as in ferromagnetic materials. The most important
materials in this class are the ferrites铁氧体, distinguished by having low
conductivity很低的电阻率.




                            m

   Example of ferrimagnetic materials: iron oxide magnetite氧化铁磁体
     Fe3O4 , nickel-zinc Ferrite镍锌铁氧体, nickel ferrite镍铁氧体.


                                                                                        30
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetic Material Summary




                                31
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetization 磁化，磁化强度
                                                                  m
 Consider a bound current, Ib, surrounding a differential
 area, dS. The magnetic moment is                                     Magnetic Dipole
                                                                        磁偶极⼦

                                                             dS

 Then, if several such moments exist within
                                                                        Ib
 a volume       , then the total magnetic moment
 within that volume will be the vector sum of the
 contributors, or:




where n is the dipole volume density (dipoles per unit volume)
                                                                                 32
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Magnetization磁化强度
 The magnetization 磁化强度is the dipole moment per unit volume, in the limit
 as the volume shrinks to a point:




  Units are dipole moment per unit volume, or Amps/m

  If all dipoles are identical, each having moment m,
  and if they all have the same orientation, then the
  magnetization simplifies to:
                                                                            M


                                                                                33
11: The Steady Magnetic Field
• Relation Between B and H



  Define:
  where      is magnetic susceptibility 磁化率

  So now..

  where the relative permeability 相对磁导率 is:



  …so that the permeability is now:
                                      and consequently:
                                                          34
